---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: "One Line At a Time"
date: 2020-01-23
labels:
  - Technical Essay
---

I got my very own computer at the age of 12, a laptop running Windows XP with 2GB of RAM and an old one core intel processor. I was thrilled, but the laptop is slow. Maybe some people will just throw their hands up and admit that the laptop is simply too old, but the young me refused to believe that and start to mess with settings in the hope to make the laptop usable to a certain extent. Around the age of 14, I finally got my very own smartphone: A Samsung Galaxy S2. Handed down to me by my aunt after she got herself a new phone. It was also around the time Google announced the release of Android Lollipop. Young me hated the UI of Jellybean and Kitkat after seeing the new UI of Lollipop, the search lead me to ROM flashing. Those are my earliest experiences of looking at codes, but not coding.

Originally, I plan to enroll in Media major to do video editing, as back in my high school, I was part of the media team and were quite interested in video editing. However, my parents refused, stating that being a video editor is not a good career path. They wanted me to do Accounting as it offers more opportunities, but I hesitated because I have no interest in that field. Near the end of high school, it came to me that there is something else that I always had an interest in Computers. After convincing my parents, with no prior coding knowledge, I enrolled in University as a computer science major. Since I am so new to coding, at first I have no idea what's happening; evident by my first ICS project a java dodgeball game, and it was a mess. 

As a Sophomore, I went from someone who barely knows anything about coding to be able to code a Discord bot. But the current state of the bot is a bit awkward to mess with as the settings can only be modified through discord input, that's why I hope that I will be able to learn some basic GUI programming from the Software Engineer course. Not only for the discord bot, but also for maybe making a mobile app in the future.